Okay okay Andre can we finally submit this form.
All right.
In this video we'll finally see what happens when we submit this form.
But there is one last thing that we need to include and that is the name attributes.
And then I'll explain.
Towards the end of this video why we need those.
So we want to add in each one of our fields a name actually.
So this one will be first name.
And I'm just going to copy and paste here just so be a little bit faster.
We have last name email password.
Birthday we already have these for the radio buttons which is good.
And we need here.
Cat Dog Volvo Volvo OK.
And we don't need it for the buns because while there's no user information there so I'm going to save
that and I'm going to make this full screen so you can see I'm going to refresh the page and let's enter
some fake data and see what happens.
So I'm going to say fake man email addresses fake password would be 1 2 3 birthday will be mail with
a cat and has an orgy.
I'm going to click register now but keep an eye out up over here to see what happens when I click Did
you catch that.
Let's copy this because when I click register this got attached minimizes.
And print this out here so we can see it for ourselves.
First we have a question mark.
Then first name fake.
That's exactly why we entered we have last name man.
Email is fake.
Something something G.M. dot.com
password 1 2 3 0.
They know our password birthday gender and Cat on.
We didn't don't select Volvo.
Not sure while take a look at that later.
But you can see over here that the value that the values that we entered into our form were just attached
to this link.
And this is actually called query strings and what it is it's one way for us to send our information
to the back end or the servers because we have to store this form information somewhere so that when
we come back onto this page the Web site remembers ups.
This was automatically generate a nation mail five with a form but form was using an attribute called
get and this get.
If I left it as this will do the exact same thing where it will attach the form information to the you
are out and send it to the server.
There is another option where you can do post and you can try it on your own here but you wouldn't see
any query parameters so this wouldn't change the bar.
The top one change and that is because it will be attached to the body of the request which we'll get
into when we get to that section.
I don't want to confuse you too much but you can see the difference here of why we might want to use
post instead of get because well what if somebody was over my shoulder and they can see my password
right there in the bar.
I just wanted you to get comfortable with the idea that we are sending this information to the back
end the way we handle that.
We'll get into later on in the course.
Right now we're just focusing on the front.
The last thing I want to show you was that form also has a action attribute which used to get used a
lot if you saw old p HP based Web sites they'll have some sort of a action dot P HP which said submit
this form and when you submit this form to the back end to the server run this script this file that's
on the server.
But there are better ways of doing this now.
So I'll show that later on and of course
let's take a look at this.
So we have a question mark and this is the standard anytime there's a query string so we're adding a
piece of data to our U.R.L..
It starts off with the question mark which states Hey coming up we're gonna have a bunch of data for
you.
The first one is first name which again corresponds with the name that we have in our form and that
was equal to fake.
So that's property and value.
So you can think of name as property and the value as men so last name first name you can see here that
there's an.
And sign.
So that's again saying first name equals to fake and last name equals demand and email equals to fake
some gibberish gmail dot com.
So this is because of something called the You are all encoding.
And because the U R L has special meaning for some characters such as this.
And the question mark it encodes the at sign with something that it understands but it won't affect
its encoding.
We have password 1 2 3 birthday gender on and Cat on.
And I've actually realized why the Volvo and Audie information didn't register and that is because for
the query string to work as you can see it needs to have a name associated with a value so we have first
name and fake.
If we look at the radio bunds we have a name which is gender and we have on.
So you see over here how we didn't send any value.
We know that the gender some button was clicked in the gender so it's on.
But we don't know which value and that is because we should have included a value for the males so that
if that's the one that's selected a value will be sent and finally value.
And now same with the select we should have had our name of the Select field be cars so that now the
name can be associated with the value so let's give that a try one more time I'm going to delete this
I'm going to save the changes that we just made.
I'm going to make this full screen.
Let's refresh and enter some new information.
Fake new email is new.
Fake G.M. dot com password is 1 2 3 4 this time birthday.
Let's do female dog and Audie.
I'm going to click register and let's see what we have here.
We have first name fake last name is new email new Fake a G.M. dot com password 1 2 3 4 birthday gender
is female.
Good dog is on.
OK so we've selected dog.
That's great.
And then cars is Hardy.
There you go and that's as complicated as forms are going to get you'll encounter this a lot.
And there is definitely in most Web sites that you build whether it's a landing page a web site that
requires registration.
This is something that you'll see a lot.
Once you understand this once it makes sense you know you can call yourself an e-mail developer.
So I'll see you in the next one.
Bye bye.